The Compound Effect Chapter 2
Choices

Your life is the product of your moment-to-moment choices.

In essence, you make your choices, and then your choices make 
you. 

Every decision, no matter how slight, alters the trajectory of 
your life.


Everything in your life exists because you 
first made a choice about something. Choices are at the root of 
every one of your results. Each choice starts a behavior that 
over time becomes a habit.

aware of and making choices 
that support the expansion of your life, 99 percent of your choices be unconscious, consciously choose to do.

Your biggest challenge isn’t that you’ve intentionally been 
making bad choices. Heck, that would be easy to fi x. Your biggest 
challenge is that you’ve been sleepwalking through your choices. 
Half the time, you’re not even aware you’re making them!

Small choices can build your life and that small choices can also destory your life. Clearly, these types of poor choices have 
major repercussions.

You’ve allowed yourself to make a choice without thinking. 
And as long as you’re making choices unconsciously, you can’t 
consciously choose to change that ineffective behavior and 
turn it into productive habits. It’s time to WAKE UP and make 
empowering choices.


Small things you can do to someone, might brighten their day. Small changes the way you behave will impact the people.

You have to be willing to give 100 percent with 
zero expectation of receiving anything in return.

I was responsible for everything I did, 
didn’t do, or how I responded to what was done to me.

I know you think you take responsibility for your life. I’ve yet to 
ask anybody who doesn’t say, “Of course, I take responsibility for my 
life.” But then you look at how most people operate in the world; 
there’s a lot of fi nger pointing, victimhood, blaming, and expecting 
someone else or the government to solve their problems. If you’ve 
ever blamed traffi c for being late, or decided you are in a bad mood 
because of something your kid, spouse, or co-worker did, you’re not 
taking 100 percent personal responsibility.


Getting Lucky


The (Complete) Formula for Getting Lucky: 
Preparation (personal growth) + 
Attitude (belief/mindset) + 
Opportunity (a good thing coming your way) + 
Action (doing something about it) =
Luck 


Preparation: By consistently improving and preparing yourself—
your skills, knowledge, expertise, relationships, and resources


Attitude:It’s simply a matter of seeing situations, conversations, and 
circumstances as fortuitous. You cannot see what you don’t look 
for, and you cannot look for what you don’t believe in. 


Opportunity:
It’s a natural occurrence, and it often shows up seemingly 
of its own accord. 

Action:it’s now your job to act on it.

You’ve never heard of him. That’s because he 
failed to take action on all the lucky things that happened to him.

No matter what has 
happened to you, take complete responsibility for it—good or 
bad, victory or defeat.

The fi rst step 
toward change is awareness. If you want to get from where you 
are to where you want to be, you have to start by becoming aware 
of the choices that lead you away from your desired destination. 
Become very conscious of every choice you make today so you 
can begin to make smarter choices moving forward.


Track every action that relates to the area of your life you want to improve.


What’s simple to do is also simple not to do.

The biggest difference 
between successful people and unsuccessful people is that 
successful people are willing to do what unsuccessful people are 
not


Log your every choice you make. Audit your choices every time. The time you spend on phone calls and chattig. Talking useless things with coleagues.

This tracking exercise changed my awareness of how I 
choosing the things over good and bad.


Tracking is a simple exercise. It works because it brings 
moment-to-moment awareness to the actions you take in the 
area of your life you want to improve. You’ll be surprised at 
what you will observe about your behavior. You cannot manage 
or improve something until you measure it. Likewise, you can’t 
make the most of who you are—your talents and resources and 
capabilities—until you are aware of and accountable for your 
actions.


Start tracking, doing so will 
revolutionize your life, and ultimately, your lifestyle.


The compounding effect 
will result in an exceptional payoff. It’s the littlest disciplines 
that pay off over time, the effort and preparation for the great 
triumph that happened when no one was looking. And yet 
the results are exceptional.


. A horse wins by a nose, but gets 
10 times the prize money. Is the horse 10 times faster? No, 
just a little bit better. But it was those extra laps around the
track, the extra discipline in the horse’s nutrition, or the extra 
work by the jockey that made the results a slight bit better 
with compounded rewards.


That’s the power 
of little things adding up. It’s not the big things that add up 
in the end; it’s the hundreds, thousands, or millions of little 
things that separate the ordinary from the extraordinary. To be 
one stroke better requires countless little things that don’t get 
accounted for when you’re putting on the green jacket. 


Success belongs to those who take small, seemingly 
insignificant step done consistently over time.


Every great act, every fantastic adventure, starts 
with small steps. The fi rst step always looks harder than it 
actually is.

Since your outcomes are all a result of your moment-tomoment choices, you have incredible power to change your life 
by changing those choices. Step by step, day by day, your choices 
will shape your actions until they become habits, where practice 
makes them permanent.


Losing is a habit. So is winning. Now let’s work on permanently 
instilling winning habits into your life. Eliminate sabotaging 
habits and instill the needed positive habits, and you can take 
your life in any direction you desire, to the heights of your 
greatest imagination.


Summary Action Steps

What area, person, or circumstance in your life do you 
struggle with the most? Start journaling all the aspects of 
that situation that you are grateful for. Keep a record of 
everything that reinforces and expands your gratitude in 
that area. 

Where in your life are you not taking 100 percent 
responsibility for the success or failure of your present 
condition? Write down three things you have done in the 
past that have messed things up. List three things you 
should have done but didn’t. Write out three things that 
happened to you but you responded poorly. Write down 
three things you can start doing right now to take back 
responsibility for the outcomes of your life.

Start tracking at least one behavior in one area of your life 
you’d like to change and improve (e.g., money, nutrition, 
fi tness, recognizing others, parenting… any area