CHAPTER 6
Acceleration

When you’ve prepared, practiced, studied,
and consistently put in the required effort, sooner or later you’ll 
be presented with your own moment of truth. In that moment, 
you will defi ne who you are and who you are becoming.


“Don’t wish it were easier; wish you were better.” 

When you hit the wall in your disciplines, routines, rhythms, 
and consistency, realize that’s when you are separating yourself 
from your old self, scaling that wall, and fi nding your new 
powerful, triumphant, and victorious self.

Multiplying Your Results

Do a litte more than you can acutally do.

Those reps done after you hit your max will multiply your 
results. You’ve just pushed through the wall of your max. The 
previous reps just got you there. The real growth happens with 
what you do after you’re at the wall.

Viewing yourself as your toughest competitor is one of the best 
ways to multiply your results. Go above and beyond when you 
hit the wall. Another way to multiply your results is pushing past 
what other people expect of you—doing more than “enough.”

Do the Unexpected


In our attention-deficit, propaganda-saturated society, 
sometimes doing the unexpected is required to get your voice 
heard. If you have a cause or ideal worthy of attention, do what 
it takes, even the unexpected, to make your case heard. Add a 
little audacity to your repertoire.



Do Better Than Expected


Find the line of expectation and then exceed. Even when it comes to the small suff or may be especially then.



Doing better than expected becomes a big part of your reputation. Your reputation for 
excellence multiplies your results in the marketplace many 
times over.

I challenge you to adopt these philosophies in your own 
life—in your daily habits, disciplines and routines. Giving a 
little more time, energy, or thought to your efforts won’t just 
improve your results; it will multiply them. It takes very little 
extra to be EXTRAordinary. In all areas of your life, look for the 
multiplier opportunities where you can go a little further, push 
yourself a little harder, last a little longer, prepare a little better, 
and deliver a little bit more.


Summary Action Steps 

Identify the infl uence the input of media and information 
is having on your life. Determine what input you need to 
protect your glass (mind) from and how you are going to 
keep your glass (mind) regularly fl ushed with positive, 
uplifting, and supportive input.

Evaluate your current associations. Who might you need 
to further limit your association? Who might you need to 
completely dissociate from? Strategize ways you will expand 
your associations.

Pick a peak-performance partner. Decide when, how 
regularly, and what you will hold each other accountable 
to, and what ideas you will expect the other to bring to 
each conversation. 

Identify the three areas of your life you are most focused 
on improving. Find and engage a mentor in each of 
those areas. Your mentors could be people who have 
accomplished what you wish to and with whom you have 
brief conversations, or they could be experts who have 
written down their ideas in books or recorded their ideas.














