CHAPTER 5
Influences

Hopefully by now you understand exactly how important 
your choices are. Even those that seem insignificant, when 
compounded, can make an extreme impact on your life.

 Everyone is affected by three kinds 
of influences: input (what you feed your mind), associations 
(the people with whom you spend time), and environment 
(your surroundings).

I. Input: Garbage In, Garbage Out

If you want your brain to 
perform at its peak, you’ve got to be even more vigilant about 
what you feed it. Controlling the input has a direct and measurable impact on 
your productivity and outcomes.

We need an extra level of vigilance to prevent our 
brains from absorbing irrelevant, counterproductive or downright 
destructive input. It’s a never-ending battle to be selective and 
to stand guard against any information that can derail your 
creative potential.


Your brain is not designed to make you happy. Your brain 
has only one agenda in mind: survival.

Don’t Drink Dirty Water

You get in life what you create. Expectation drives the creative 
process. What do you expect? You expect whatever it is you’re 
thinking about. Your thought process, the conversation in your 
head, is at the base of the results you create in life.

Your mind is like an empty glass; it’ll hold anything you put 
into it.  What is that clear water? Positive, inspirational, and 
supportive input and ideas. Stories of aspiration, people who, 
despite challenges, are overcoming obstacles and achieving 
great things.



It’s not enough to eliminate negative input. To move in a 
positive direction, you must fl ush out the bad and fi ll up on the 
good.


The people 
with whom we spend our time determine what conversations 
dominate our attention, and to which attitudes and opinions we 
are regularly exposed.



Watch 
out! You cannot hang out with negative people and expect to 
live a positive life.



Invest in Mentorship

Willing to hire and pay for 
the best coaches and trainers there are. It pays to invest in your 
improved performance.


Environment:

The dream in your heart may be bigger than the environment 
in which you fi nd yourself. Sometimes you have to get out of that 
environment to see that dream fulfi lled. It’s like planting an oak 
sapling in a pot. Once it becomes rootbound, its growth is limited. 
It needs a great space to become a mighty oak. So do you.



Creating 
a positive environment to support your success means clearing out 
all the clutter in your life.


It’s amazing how life will organize around the standards you 
set for yourself.
















































































































































































































































