I started reading the IKIGAI book.

1. Whatever you do, don’t retire! keep
doing what they love for as long as your health allows.
2. Eat until the stomach is
only 80 percent full.
3. Always engage in mental activities. Just as a lack of physical exercise has negative effects on our bodies and
mood, a lack of mental exercise is bad for us because it causes our neurons and
neural connections to deteriorate—and, as a result, reduces our ability to react to
our surroundings. This is why it’s so important to give your brain a workout. The brain needs a lot of stimulation in order to
stay in shape. Presented with new information, the brain creates new connections and is
revitalized. This is why it is so important to expose yourself to change, even if
stepping outside your comfort zone means feeling a bit of anxiety.

4. Our neurons start to age while we are still in our twenties. This process is
Our neurons start to age while we are still in our twenties. This process is
slowed, however, by intellectual activity, curiosity, and a desire to learn. Dealing
with new situations, learning something new every day, playing games, and
interacting with other people seem to be essential antiaging strategies for the
mind.

5. Have connections, try to be in touch with everyone.

6. Stress: Accused of killing longevity: Many people seem older than they are. Research into the causes of premature
aging has shown that stress has a lot to do with it, because the body wears down
much faster during periods of crisis. The American Institute of Stress
investigated this degenerative process and concluded that most health problems
are caused by stress. These days, people live at a frantic pace and in a nearly constant state of
competition. At this fever pitch, stress is a natural response to the information
being received by the body as potentially dangerous or problematic.

7. Be mindful about reducing stress: Whether or not the threats we perceive are real, stress is an easily identifiable
condition that not only causes anxiety but is also highly psychosomatic, affecting
everything from our digestive system to our skin.

8. A lot of sitting will age you
Being sedentary can lead to hypertension, imbalanced
eating, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, and even certain kinds of cancer.
Recent studies have shown a connection between a lack of physical activity and
the progressive distortion of telomeres in the immune system, which ages those
cells and, in turn, the organism as a whole.

9. Science has shown that sleep is a key antiaging tool, because when we sleep
we generate melatonin, a hormone that occurs naturally in our bodies. The pineal
gland produces it from the neurotransmitter serotonin according to our diurnal
and nocturnal rhythms, and it plays a role in our sleep and waking cycles.

10. Antiaging attitudes
The mind has tremendous power over the body and how quickly it ages. Most
doctors agree that the secret to keeping the body young is keeping the mind active
—a key element of ikigai—and in not caving in when we face difficulties
throughout our lives. A stoic attitude—serenity in the face of a setback—can also help keep you
young, as it lowers anxiety and stress levels and stabilizes behavior. This can be
seen in the greater life expectancies of certain cultures with unhurried, deliberate
lifestyles.




we just have to add a few ingredients to our everyday habits:





1. Walk to work, or just go on a walk for at least twenty minutes each day.

2. Use your feet instead of an elevator or escalator. This is good for your
posture, your muscles, and your respiratory system, among other things.

3. Participate in social or leisure activities so that you don’t spend too much time
in front of the television.
4. Replace your junk food with fruit and you’ll have less of an urge to snack,
and more nutrients in your system.
5. Get the right amount of sleep. Seven to nine hours is good, but any more than
that makes us lethargic.
6. Play with children or pets, or join a sports team. This not only strengthens the
body but also stimulates the mind and boosts self-esteem.
7. Be conscious of your daily routine in order to detect harmful habits and
replace them with more positive ones.

8. Eating a balanced diet and getting more calcium.
9. Soaking up a moderate amount of sun each day.
10. Getting enough sleep.
11. Avoiding stress, alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine, all of which make it harder
to get a good night’s rest, depriving us of the melatonin we need.




















