Habits are like trees,the older 
they are, the bigger they get, the deeper the roots grow, and the 
harder they are to uproot. Some get so big, with roots so deep, 
you might hesitate to even try.

We are what we repeatedly do.
- Aristotle


Habit is an acquired mode of behavior 
that has become nearly or completely involuntary.

They’re riding the horse of their habits, 
with no idea where they’re headed. It’s time to take control of 
the reins, and move your life in the direction of where you really 
want to go.

If you’ve been living on autopilot and allowing your habits 
to run you, I want you to understand why. And I want you to 
let yourself off the hook.

 95 percent of everything we 
feel, think, do, and achieve is a result of a learned habit!

We’re 
born with instincts, of course, but no habits at all. We develop 
them over time. Beginning in childhood, we learned a series of
conditioned responses that led us to react automatically (as in, 
without thinking) to most situations.




Our habits and routines allow us to use minimal conscious 
energy for everyday tasks.


If you’re successful 
in a sales job, it’s probably because your habits of mental 
preparation and positive self-talk enable you to stay optimistic 
in the face of rejection.


 A daily routine built on 
good habits is the difference that separates the most successful 
amongst us from everyone else.


 habits take them in the direction of becoming more 
informed, more knowledgeable, more competent, better skilled, 
and better prepared.

It was Larry’s habits—his relentless dedication to practice and to 
improve his game. With that kind of discipline, Larry made the most of his God-given 
talents and kicked the butts of some of the most “gifted” players on 
the court.

With enough practice and repetition, any behavior, good or 
bad, becomes automatic over time.


It stands to reason that since you learned every habit you have, you can also unlearn the ones that aren’t serving you 
well.



Instant Gratifi cation Trap


So why are we so irrationally enslaved 
by so many bad habits? It’s because our need for immediate 
gratifi cation can turn us into the most reactive, nonthinking 
animals around

The problem is that the payoff or instant gratifi cation derived 
from bad habits often far outweighs what’s going on in your 
rational mind concerning long-term consequences.



Indulging 
in our bad habits doesn’t seem to have any negative effects at all in the moment.But that doesn’t mean 
you haven’t activated the Compound Effect.



realize that the habits you 
indulge in could be compounding your life into repeated 
disaster. The slightest adjustments to your daily routines 
can dramatically alter the outcomes in your life.

Again, I’m 
not talking about quantum leaps of change or a complete 
overhaul of your personality, character, and life.

Supersmall, 
seemingly inconsequential adjustments can and will 
revolutionize everything.


A single 
poor habit, which doesn’t look like much in the moment, can 
ultimately lead you miles off course from the direction of your 
goals and the life you desire.


Most people drift through life without devoting much 
conscious energy to fi guring out specifi cally what they want and 
what they need to do to take themselves there.



Finding Your Mojo—Your Why-Power

 As soon 
as you get the slightest bit uncomfortable, you’re going to be 
tempted to slide back into your old, comfortable routine.

You’ve tried willpower before and it’s failed you.

The wisest and most motivating choices 
are the ones aligned with that which you identify as your 
purpose, your core self, and your highest values. You’ve got 
to want something, and know why you want it, or you’ll end 
up giving up too easily.

Why Everything’s Possible

Until you’ve 
set your desire and motivation in place, you’ll abandon any 
new path you seek to better your life.


If your why-power—your 
desire—isn’t great enough, if the fortitude of your commitment 
isn’t powerful enough, you’ll end up like every other person 
who makes a New Year’s resolution and gives up too quickly 
and reverts to sleepwalking through poor choices.


Core Motivation

Your core values are your internal compass, your guiding 
beacon, your personal GPS. They act as the fi lter through which 
you run all of life’s demands, requests, and temptations, making 
sure they’re leading you toward your intended destination.


Getting your core values defi ned and properly calibrated is one 
of the most important steps in redirecting your life toward your 
grandest vision.


Goals:


If you are not making the progress that you would like to 
make and are capable of making, it is simply because your goals 
are not clearly defi ned.


Whatever you vividly 
imagine, ardently desire, sincerely believe, and enthusiastically 
act upon... must inevitably come to pass!

How Goal Setting Actually Works: 
The Mystery ‘Secret’ Revealed

when you “think” something, it appears that you are 
miraculously drawing it into your life.

In reality, you’re now just 
seeing what was already there. You are truly “attracting” it into 
your life.

When you defi ne your goals, you give your brain something 
new to look for and focus on.


Top people have very clear goals. They know who they are 
and they know what they want. They write it down and they 
make plans for its accomplishment. Unsuccessful people carry 
their goals around in their head like marbles rattling around in a 
can, and we say a goal that is not in writing is merely a fantasy. 
And everybody has fantasies, but those fantasies are like bullets 
with no powder in the cartridge. People go through life shooting 
blanks without written goals—and that’s the starting point.


Who You Have to Become

If you want to have more, 
you have to become more. Success is not something you pursue. What 
you pursue will elude you; it can be like trying to chase butterfl ies. 
Success is something you attract by the person you become.


Behave Yourself

What stands between you and your goal is your behavior.

Your life comes down to this formula: 
YOU > CHOICE(Decision) + BEHAVIOR(Action) + HABIT(Repeated action) + COMPOUNDED(Time) = GOALS


That’s why it’s imperative to fi gure out which behaviors are 
blocking the path that leads to your goal, and which behaviors 
will help you accomplish your goal.

 Doing so immediately cleared out 95 percent 
of the mind-cluttering and time-sucking noise. He could now 
review all that mattered to him in less than twenty minutes a day.


One small, simple change in 
habit, one giant leap forward in balance and productivity!



Habits and behaviors never lie. If there’s a discrepancy between 
what you say and what you do, I’m going to believe what you do
every time.

Making this list isn’t about wasting energy by getting 
judgmental and regretful. It’s about taking a clear-headed look 
at what you want to improve.

Game Changers: Five Strategies 
for Eliminating Bad Habits



Your habits are learned; therefore, they can be unlearned. If 
you want to sail your life in a new direction, you have to fi rst 
pick up the anchors of bad habits that have been weighing you 
down. The key is to make your why-power so strong that it 
overwhelms your urges for instant gratifi cation. And for that, 
you need a new game plan.

1. Identify Your Triggers
2. Clean House : Don’t bring it into the house, period. 
Get rid of whatever enables your bad habits.
3. Swap It: Replace bad habit
4. Ease In: One step at a time
5. Jump In

Run a Vice Check

 I love proving to myself that I’m still in charge. 
Try this yourself. Pick a vice—something you do in moderation, 
but you know doesn’t contribute to your highest good—and 
take yourself on a thirty-day wagon run. If you fi nd it seriously 
diffi cult to abstain for those thirty days, you may have found a 
habit worth cutting out of your life.

Game Changers: Seven Techniques 
for Installing Good Habits

Now that we have helped you eliminate the bad habits that are 
taking you in the wrong direction, we need to create new choices, 
behaviors, and ultimately habits that will fi nally take you in the 
direction of your grandest desires.

Eliminating a bad habit means 
removing something from your routine. Installing a new, more 
productive habit requires an entirely different skill set. You’re 
planting the tree, watering it, fertilizing it, and making sure it’s properly rooted. Doing so takes effort, time, and practice.

1. Set Yourself Up to Succeed:
Set environment, remove all the distractions.


2. Think Addition, Not Subtraction:
Replace bad habit with the good one.

3. Go for a PDA: Public Display of Accountability


4. Find a Success Buddy

5. Competition & Camaraderie

6. Celebrate!


Change Is Hard: Yippee!

There is a one thing that 99 percent of “failures” and “successful” 
folks have in common—they all hate doing the same things. The 
difference is successful people do them anyway.


 if change 
were easy, and everyone were doing it, it would be much more difficult for you and me to stand out and become an extraordinary 
success.

 Ordinary is easy. Extra-ordinary is what will separate you 
from the crowd.


The ultimate measure of a man is not 
where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, 
but where he stands at times of challenge.


When you press 
on despite diffi culty, tedium, and hardship, that’s when you 
earn your improvement and gain strides on the competition.

Be Patient

Creating new habits (and burning new grooves into your 
brain) will take time. Be patient with yourself. If you fall off the 
wagon, brush yourself off (not beat yourself up!), and get back 
on. No problem. We all stumble. Just go again and try another 
strategy; reinforce your commitment and consistency. When you 
press on, you will receive huge payoffs.


Summary Action Steps 

Identify your three best habits—those that support your 
most important goal. 

Identify your three bad habits that take you off course 
from your most important goal. 

Identify three new habits you need to develop to put you 
on track toward your most important goal.

Identify your core motivation. Discover what gets you 
fi red up and keeps you fi red up to achieve big results. 

Find your why-power. Design your concise, compelling, 
and awe-inspiring goals.






























































