CHAPTER 4
MOMENTUM

Harnessing the Power of Big Mo


Objects at rest tend to stay at rest unless acted on by an outside 
force. Objects in motion tend to stay in motion, unless something stops 
their momentum. Put another way, couch potatoes tend to stay couch 
potatoes. Achievers—people who get into a successful rhythm—
continue busting their butts and end up achieving more and more.


Progress is slow, but 
once a newly formed habit has kicked in, Big Mo joins the party. 
Your success and results compound rapidly.

The same thing happens when a rocket ship launches. The space 
shuttle uses more fuel during the fi rst few minutes of its fl ight 
than it does the rest of the entire trip.


Everything just wants to stay at rest. You’ll need 
a lot of energy to break your inertia and get your new enterprise 
under way. But once you get momentum, you will be hard to 
stop—virtually unbeatable—even though you’re now putting out 
considerably less effort while receiving greater results.



Their habits, disciplines, routines, and consistency were the keys that unlocked momentum for each. And 
they became unstoppable when Big Mo showed up to their party.

 Similar to our discussion in the Habits section, 
if you look at anything you do that’s successful, you’ll see that 
you’ve probably developed a routine for it. These routines ease 
life’s stresses by making our actions automatic and effective. To 
reach new goals and develop new habits, it’s necessary to create 
new routines to support your objectives.


Their routines are 
so well-rehearsed that these young soldiers can instinctively act 
with precision in the middle of the chaos of combat.

Their routines are 
so well-rehearsed that these young soldiers can instinctively act 
with precision in the middle of the chaos of combat.



the pilot goes 
through a prefl ight checklist every time without fail.


A daily routine built on good 
habits and disciplines separates the most successful among us 
from everyone else. A routine is exceptionally powerful.


When your disciplines and actions develop a rhythm, you welcome 
Big Mo.

Registering Your Rhythm 
I want to share with you something I created for myself that 
helps me keep track of the rhythm of a new behavior. I call it my 
“Rhythm Register,” and I think you’ll fi nd it extremely helpful.

The Compound Effect—the 
positive results you want to experience in your life—will be the 
result of smart choices (and actions) repeated consistently over time.

You have to build a program that 
you can do for fi fty years, not fi ve weeks, or fi ve months





Consistency is the key to achieving and maintaining momentum.




All you have to do to keep 
the pressure steady is to just pump the lever consistently. That’s 
the Compound Effect.



When you start thinking about slacking off on your routines 
and rhythms, consider the massive cost of inconsistency. It is not 
the loss of the single action and tiny results it creates; it is the utter 
collapse and loss of momentum your entire progress will suffer.


Consistency is the key to achieving and maintaining momentum.

The Pump Well

If you continue to 
pump, it doesn’t take long before you’ll get a full and steady 
stream of water. You have your success! Now that the water is 
fl owing, you no longer need to pump the lever as hard or as 
quickly. It becomes easy, actually. All you have to do to keep 
the pressure steady is to just pump the lever consistently. That’s 
the Compound Effect.


The person 
who, given enough time, will beat virtually anybody in any 
competition as a result of positive habits and behaviors applied 
consistently. That’ll put the mojo in your momentum.

Summary Action Steps 

Build your bookend morning and evening routines. 
Design a predicable and fail-safe world-class routine 
schedule for you life. 

List three areas of life in which you are not consistent 
enough. What has this inconsistency cost you in life thus 
far? Make a declaration to stay steadfast in your new 
commitment to consistency. 

On your Rhythm Register, write down a half-dozen 
key behaviors relevant to your new goals. These should 
be behaviors you want to establish a rhythm with and 
eventually create momentum—Big Mo.

































































































