CHAPTER 1 
THE COMPOUND EFFECT IN ACTION


- Smartst or the fastest may not always win. However who develops positive habits along with the consistency does.

- The Compound Effect is the principle of reaping huge rewards 
from a series of small, smart choices. What’s most interesting about 
this process to me is that, even though the results are massive, 
the steps, in the moment, don’t feel significant.

- What they don’t realize is that these small, seemingly 
insignifi cant steps completed consistently over time will create a 
radical difference. Let me give you a few detailed examples. 

Small, Smart Choices + Consistency + Time = RADICAL DIFFERENCE

- The Ripple Effect: The reality is that even one small 
change can have a signifi cant impact that causes an unexpected 
and unintended ripple effect.


- elieving that the other person is wrong rather than looking 
inside and doing the work necessary to clean up your mess is 
basic Psychology 101 stuff.

- The most challenging aspect of the Compound Effect is that we 
have to keep working away for a while, consistently and efficiently, 
before we can begin to see the payoff.


- The secret to success was then, and is now, hard work, discipline, and good habits.


- Success as Granted:

Because nothing fails like 
success. People get to a certain level of success and get too comfortable. 
Real and 
lasting success requires work—and lots of it! Then, unfortunately, the restaurant’s staff began to take its 
success for granted.  They failed because
of their success. Or rather, because they stopped doing what 
made them successful to begin with. Their success clouded their 
perspective and they slacked off.

- By the end of this book, or even before, I want you to know in 
your bones that your only path to success is through a continuum 
of mundane, unsexy, unexciting, and sometimes difficult daily 
disciplines compounded over time. Know, too, that the results, the 
life, and the lifestyle of your dreams can be yours when you put 
the Compound Effect to work for you.

Summary Action Steps 

Write out a few excuses you might be clinging to (e.g., 
not smart enough, no experience, wrong upbringing, 
don’t have the education, etc.). Decide to make up in hard 
work and personal development to outcompete anyone—
including your old self.

- Write out the half-dozen small, seemingly 
inconsequential steps you can take every day that can take 
your life in a completely new and positive direction. 


- Write down the small, seemingly 
inconsequential actions you can stop doing that might be 
compounding your results downward.

- List a few areas, skills, or outcomes where you have you 
been most successful in the past. Consider whether you 
could be taking those for granted and are not continuing 
to improve, and are therefore in jeopardy of having that 
complacency lead to future failure.


---


Chapter 1: The Compound Effect in Action

Winning isn't always about being the smartest or the fastest, but rather about developing positive habits and maintaining consistency over time. The Compound Effect is a principle that involves reaping significant rewards from a series of small, smart choices. What's fascinating about this process is that the steps, in the moment, may not seem significant, but completed consistently over time, they can create a radical difference. This chapter provides several detailed examples of the Compound Effect in action.

One aspect of the Compound Effect is the ripple effect, where even one small change can have a significant impact that causes an unexpected and unintended ripple effect. Additionally, believing that someone else is wrong instead of taking responsibility for your actions and doing the work necessary to clean up your mess is basic Psychology 101.

The most challenging aspect of the Compound Effect is that it requires consistent and efficient work over time before one can begin to see the payoff. Success requires hard work, discipline, and good habits. Unfortunately, nothing fails like success. People get comfortable with their level of success and stop doing what made them successful in the first place, leading to failure.

By the end of this book, the reader should understand that success requires a continuum of mundane, unsexy, unexciting, and sometimes difficult daily disciplines compounded over time. With the Compound Effect, anyone can achieve the life and lifestyle of their dreams.

To put the principles of the Compound Effect into action, the chapter provides several action steps:

Identify any excuses that you might be clinging to and decide to make up for them with hard work and personal development.

Identify half a dozen small, seemingly inconsequential steps you can take every day that can take your life in a completely new and positive direction.

Identify small, seemingly inconsequential actions you can stop doing that might be compounding your results downward.

Consider areas, skills, or outcomes where you have been most successful in the past and determine whether you are taking them for granted and not continuing to improve, which may lead to future failure.






















