14:19 24-03-2023
12 January

We could finally launch Admin project. After clearing all the bugs. I used to do so many silly mistakes that makes me show as a stupic. I need to tincker those changes and be able to go forwords with full of confidence.

My mistakes
1. I alway hurry. I was haste to do any work. So I never take time to think about it and out of nowhere my silly thougts comes out. That is my vital disadvantage. The simplest solution for that is to be take time to think about it before answering a question.

2. I alway confuse. I sometime try to answer as fast as I can, but failed to preserve the things properly. I need to get clyster clear clarity before headed to anser a question.

13 Jaunary

Today is Sankranthi, all are ordered to wear treditional dreses. However, I never wear, that if fact.

Today, I practiced Angular and Spring boot.
I pushed all the Angular project into git repo. As well as My spring boot project. Now I have all code needed to build an execellet project.

I never get disturbed by others behaviour:
If they treat me in goodway and have faith in my work that I alway try to put my 100% efforts into that.
If they won't believe in me, that is also great, they won't give me any task, so that I could get much more feasible to work on myself. Whatsoever, I will win in both ways.

14 Jaunary

Today is sunday, early morning last person of my room had vacated. Now I am the only one in the room, all were gone to Sankantri holidays. I washed my clothes. I practiced coding. clearing all the bugs of my previous codes.

I wanted to go to Medchal but I didn''t. Instead I used all of my time to myself.


Lessons:

1. Two kings of works are there
i) Interesting and Productive
ii)  Interesting and Entertainment
III) Importent but not Interesting

Okay, let it go. All I want to say is
You always postpone important works which are not interested. And you always embrace interesting works and you try to give room more for those.

Remember, you need to complete important tasks first, those time which organises you and improve your lifestyle.

How interest drives us?
Washing Cloths < Writting Code < Using Instagram. We tend to use my more instagram than to write code. We kept on coding inorder to avoid washing cloths. In reality washing clothes is much more important.

2. Putting on more efforts only on coading.

You need to grow in all directions not only one directions.
What if you learn much more coding and ended up forgotting great communication skills. So keep it up, only coding can't take you anywhere.

READ BIBLE EVERYDAY
WATCH A GRAMMER LESSON
WATCH A LIFESTYLE VIDEO
WATCH ANY KIND OF USEFUL VIDEO
LEARN FEW WORDS EVERYDAY

Lessons
- If something is interesting and productive, it doesn't mean you need to do all the time.
- Sometime productive tasks has to be in queue of daily habits.
- Who are the killers of habits? Interesting Productive task, which you contribute more time to those.


15 January

ONE MORE EXAMPLE FOR MY FOOLISHNESS

I could not call it as foolishness. It could be describe as HURRY. I am a bit haste, I can't check all the posibilites before lock my decisions. That is why I always get fast-forword merge in project, I never take pull before commit.

Instead of booking Chriu movie, I booked balakrishna movie. I had to sell my tickets for half of the price. Why so haste, me?

Say whatever you want to say, even if your voice shakes.
I always try to convince people and make them feel good with my sugar coated feedbacks. I need to stop this, I have to be robot and cleary explain about the problems out there to everyone.

If you could explain without anyfear or voice shake, welcome to leadership club.

Lessions
- Think before do something.
- Never take any decisions hastly.
- Think twice, you might get better solution.
- Before save the data, recheck the fields.
- Explain according  to there level of understanding.
- Don't bite the bullet, share the workload to all.


<svg style="isolation: isolate;" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
	width="512" height="512" viewBox="0 0 512 512" version="1.1">
	<circle fill="#2A10BD" cx="256" width="512" height="512" cy="256" r="256" />
	<text x="50%" y="50%" style="
          line-height: 1;
          font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', 'Roboto',
            'Oxygen', 'Ubuntu', 'Fira Sans', 'Droid Sans', 'Helvetica Neue',
            sans-serif;
        " alignment-baseline="middle" text-anchor="middle" font-size="224" font-weight="bold" dy=".1em"
		dominant-baseline="middle" fill="#ffffff">
		SU
	</text>
</svg>

Starving: I am hungry
Terrific purches
Thrilled
Lavish
Indolent
Intelligent
Tedious
Keen
Wicked
Quick
Luminous

Luminous
Lavish
Innovative
Starving
Terrific purches
Delicious
Glorious
Gorgious
Indolent
Obese
Scrotching
Freezing
Breathtaking
sad

Elevation

Email Etiquette

- Keep it short
- Reply to all
- Descriptive Subject
- Searchable emails
- keep it organized

portray(v)
inadequate
purpose and Intention

Plenty of people
deserve
protocol
bias
cruel

Life seems incredibly unfair when the world imposes judgement on our abilities.

Just because we develop feelings for someone doesn’t mean those feelings will be reciprocated.

feigning

